Hi there, friends in this session, weÂwill be introduced to A Whole New World,Â Âa world of physics in this beautiful planet thatÂwe call Earth. There are a lot of interestingÂ Âevents that take place. These events are aroundÂus, which we see, or do or experience almostÂ Âregularly at some point in time. Your curiosityÂwould have definitely got the better of you,Â Âand would have pushed you to ask questions likeÂwhat's going on. How does that happen? Well,Â Âleaving Miracles apart. The answer to all theseÂquestions is physics. You see, there is more toÂ Âevents in our everyday lives than what meets theÂeye. So to appreciate the events that you see,Â Âyou have to first understand events that you don'tÂsee confused. Don't worry. Let's make it simple byÂ Âlooking into 10 of our everyday life examplesÂat random. We all know what that sound is,Â Âdon't we? It is a very annoying, yet importantÂsound, which tells us that we have to be up andÂ Âabout. We wake up in the morning at the sound ofÂthe alarm sound is something which we can't see,Â Âbut can hear our experience. It is used inÂimportant medical equipment like the ultrasoundÂ Âscanner, and buy ships to estimate the depth ofÂthe ocean physics studies, the origin, propagationÂ Âand properties of sound. Let's make a note of thisÂevent of sound and other events yet to come in theÂ Âsession before we Define what physics has in theÂend, to have a cup of coffee, we boil water. AfterÂ Âturning on the stove, we noticed that the water isÂhot enough when it starts boiling. And when we seeÂ ÂSteam this gradual rise in temperature that causesÂthe water to bubble and later changed to steam isÂ Âcalled heat. Thus, we get hot water by heatingÂthat is, increasing. The temperature of water.Â ÂHeat is used in the industry to melt metal andÂmake various types of heavy-duty Machinery likeÂ ÂAutomobiles and generators. It is also used inÂhousehold appliances, like the electric or steamÂ Âiron heat. And its properties is an importantÂtopic of physics as well. While we take a walkÂ Âin the park on at our road, we have a good gripÂwithout slipping because of a sort of roughnessÂ Âor resistance between the soles of our shoesÂand the surface of the road. This resistanceÂ Âthat's responsible for grip is called frictionÂor traction. But say, if we're busy on our cellÂ Âphones or waving at our friends, and we do notÂnotice a banana peel in front of us, what makesÂ Âus fall 12. Apart from our absent-mindedness,Âit is due to the reduced friction between ourÂ Âshoes and the road because of the slipperyÂbanana. Peel friction, which is an importantÂ Âfactor in the making of tires, is also explainedÂby physics. We have all observed apples fallingÂ Âfrom a tree or balloons floating away in are howÂis this possible? The apples fall down while theÂ Âballoons float up. This is nothing to be puzzledÂabout. The answer is simple. Earth has a kind of aÂ Âpull that draws every object to its surface. ThisÂbull is called gravity or gravitational force,Â Âwhich keeps every object grounded to the surfaceÂof the Earth and prevents them from floating away.Â ÂThis is why Apple's fall to the ground and whyÂpeople or objects on the underside of the earthÂ Âdo not fall into space. So why did the balloonÂfloat away and not fall to the ground? Hmm again,Â Âit's no big deal. We know the air is light. SoÂimagine something which is lighter than air like,Â Âsay, helium gas filled into the balloon becauseÂit is light. It rises to a level higher than air,Â Âand thus Works Against Gravity, which now cannotÂkeep the balloon grounded. Gravity is study to aÂ Âgreat extent by astronauts to mimic conditions inÂouter space. In fact, gravity is the very eventÂ Âthat was studied by Sir Isaac Newton, who is nowÂconsidered one of the fathers of physics. WhenÂ Âwe use a compass, we notice that the direction ofÂthe needle is constant. That is the needle pointsÂ Âin Only One Direction. Not this is because of aÂforce of attraction between two oppositely chargedÂ Âends called magnetism. All materials that followÂmagnetism can be termed as magnets. Did you knowÂ Âthat apart from being just a planet, our EarthÂis actually one big giant magnet. The geographicÂ ÂNorth Pole of the earth that is the ArcticÂregion is actually the magnetic South Pole,Â Âwhich attracts the Magnetic North Pole of theÂcompass is why the compass always points North,Â Âno matter where it is. We all know OppositesÂAttract, don't we? Physics looks into the propertyÂ Âof magnetism, which is used in modes of Transport,Âlike the Metro trains and in parts of electronicÂ Âspeakers.We would have all seen or done at leastÂa few of these tricks. So what makes objectsÂ Âremain still or maintain its position? Even ifÂthere is a pull or tug on it, it is the inertiaÂ Âor unwillingness or laziness of a body to changeÂits state of rest or motion. This means if a bodyÂ Âmoves, it prefers to remain in motion and finds itÂdifficult to stop unless an outside force acts onÂ Âit. Similarly, when a body is not moving or atÂrest, it prefers to stay that way and finds itÂ Âdifficult to start moving unless an outside forceÂacts on it. This property of inertia is importantÂ Âfor the automobile industry while mimickingÂaccidents for safer cars to be manufactured. Thus,Â Âphysics also involves inertia. Speaking of Doug'sÂor pushes, what do we do when we open or close theÂ Âdoor? We use Force when the door is heavy, we useÂmore strength to move it, which simply means thatÂ Âwe use more force force is something that weÂuse on a daily basis. In almost all tasks, weÂ Âundertake like brushing our teeth. Pushing buttonsÂon a keyboard or cell phone force is also involvedÂ Âin various processes like coughing, sneezingÂand blood flow due to the contraction of certainÂ Âmuscles in our body. Simply put, force is nothingÂbut the pressure exerted by one body on anotherÂ Âbody sports like swimming or running also employÂForce for this reason, force is also dealt with byÂ Âphysics. Let's look into our daily gadgets likeÂthe cell phone. What makes the cell phone workÂ Âis the electricity that supplied by the battery.ÂWhat charges the battery is, the electricity thatÂ Âsupplied by the power source, electricity, asÂwe all know, is an important part of our dailyÂ Âlives. Beat for transportation like buses, carsÂor trains of a powering, a household appliancesÂ Âlike the television, the fridge, the microwave,Âor even to watch this video. Did you know thatÂ Âour body is also like an appliance and the partÂof run it comes from certain cells which produceÂ Âelectricity. This type of electricity is called asÂbioelectricity, which we will see in our biologyÂ Âvideos, though we all are biological systems. TheÂmechanism of electricity production is explainedÂ Âby physics. Remember, if electricity can rockÂyour world, it can also shock Your World. The ManyÂ Âusages of electricity is enough proof to justifyÂwhy we include electricity in physics. After aÂ Âwhile of rain, we see a rainbow in the sky. It isÂbeautiful and has seven different colors. This isÂ Âa property of light, particularly white light. DoÂwe call it white light? It is actually a mixtureÂ Âof Lights of many different colors. RainbowsÂare formed due to the splitting of sun rays,Â Âwhich is white light through raindrops. Study ofÂlight is an important part of physics because ofÂ Âthe various usages of light, like in decorationsÂand lasers. Did you know that we are all madeÂ Âup of many, many smaller particles which weÂcannot see individually with our Naked Eyes,Â Âor even with a microscope. They are even smallerÂthan the smallest cell. And in fact, these areÂ Âthe very building blocks of cells and everythingÂin the universe. Do you know what these particlesÂ Âare? They called atoms. Two or more atoms comeÂtogether to form a molecule. And many moleculesÂ Âcome together to form visible matter. Just imagineÂhow many molecules, and consequently, how manyÂ Âmore atoms we are made up of billions, trillions,Âzillions, even things that we can't see,Â Âlike my new dust particles, are made up of atoms.ÂThe theory of atoms and molecules is involved withÂ Âthe original of the universe, life on Earth andÂeverything around us. Hence, physics just cannotÂ Âdo without it from all of these events. Let us nowÂDefine physics. The word physics comes from theÂ ÂGreek word fizzes, meaning nature and physiqueÂmeaning, knowledge of nature. Thus simply put,Â Âphysics is nothing but the study of nature and theÂUniverse on the whole, and the various occurrencesÂ Âor events taking place in it. For each of theÂpreviously mentioned examples. There are otherÂ Âevents that are occurring at the same time, whichÂare invisible, or which we considered physics,Â Âexplains all these unseen events to its goal isÂto answer all questions, right from ElementalÂ Âparticles like atoms to gigantic structures likeÂplanets. It gives us an understanding of how andÂ Âwhy things are the way they are. The eventsÂmentioned earlier were just minut examples ofÂ Âhow physics is involved in our everyday lives. SoÂnow, do you see how important studying physics is?Â ÂPhysics is a lot like a mountain, which is notÂdifficult to scale. And when you reach the top,Â Âthe view is beautiful. Just don't accept thingsÂthe way they are. Follow your curiosity wideÂ Âand far. Please give us your comments on theÂsession. If you like the session and uninterestedÂ Âto watch more of these sessions, click onÂthe like button and subscribe to let stood